Detailed comments on the thesis
-------------------------------

A list of acronyms might be useful, either up front or as a
fifth appendix.

Chapter 2
---------

It seemed to me that the lack of centrosymmetry was sometimes
described in terms of a polarization, and sometimes in terms
of an E-field.  However, the latter, E-field, is not really
so appropriate.  See Eq. (2.2), for example.  If you mean a
_local_ field, it should be E(r), not just E.  But if it is
the macroscopic unit-cell-averaged electric field, that is
not a material property, it is an externally imposed boundary
condition.  For example, in almost all DFT calculations, it
is zero.  What, then, is exactly meant by E in (2.2)?

Thank you for pointing this out. The terminology and description can 
indeed be improved upon. There are some subtleties related with this.
In the context of the Rashba effect and how it is discussed in this 
section, this electric field associated with the polarization
should be regarded as the local electric field that results from 
the dipoles that appear due to the inversion symmetry breaking (ISB) and
lead to the polarization. It is this field that will interact with the 
envelope part of the wavefunction,
and leads to the relativistic Rashba effect. Indeed this means that 
my discussion on which local fields interact with which parts of the 
wavefunction is maybe too simplified, in the sense that this 
internal field from the dipoles is not a constant throughout the unit-cell,
as is depicted by the violet surface in Fig. 2.2. 
In reality, if we consider the single atom paraelectric unit-cell of Fig. 2.2,
dimerize the bonds along the y direction, the field from the resulting dipoles
will be approximately constant across the atoms, where the Bloch function
peaks. Thus, when computing the contribution to the energy of this field interacting
with the envelope, i.e. by performing the real-space
integral, it could be replaced by an effective constant field,
which one could refer to as the be referred to as the ISB field.
This constant effective field is indicated by the violet potential in Fig. 2.2. 
A very subtle point related with your comment is how different boundary 
conditions would change the Rashba effect. Indeed, when open 
boundary conditions would be considered, the electric field that
is a result of the surface charges would also lead to a contribution,
which would be absent for short-circuited boundary conditions. 
However, again, since the prefactor is so small, and this field
is really tiny, I think the difference between these boundary
conditions can be considered negligible. 

I have replaced the E in eq 2.2 to \hat{\bm n} to indicate that 
it is a unit vector along the ISB field.



I had some feeling that Eqs. 2.7-11 were also imprecise.
Which of the V's are just numbers (2.7, 2.8?) and which ones
are functions V(r) (2.9 and 2.10?).  In (2.11), are these
all functions of (r)?  And what, exactly, is the "field
associated with the polarization"?  (Same question as in
the previous paragraph above.)

All of these should have been a function of r indeed. The field 
associated with polarization is the field that is generated
by the dipoles that lead to the ferroelectric polarization.
As discussed above, this field thus varies in space. 
The way it was meant is the local electric field that results
from the inversion symmetry breaking potential.
<Add where the text has been updated, and figure too> 

By the way, I guess a factor of 'e' is missing in (2.11).

I don't think this is true. There is, however, a minus sign missing,
which propagates through the following equations as well.

This whole discussion is somewhat heuristic anyway, so maybe
a precise formulation is not needed, but in that case maybe
you should introduce it as a heuristic discussion from the
start.

I have added heuristic to this sentence:
"Before turning to a $\bm{k} \cdot \bm{p}$ expansion of the above equations, we take a moment to discuss heuristically..."
 

I'm not sure why the title of the subsection starting above
Eq. (2.15) is "Electrostatics".  Find a more suitable title?

This title was chosen was to highlight that the discussion that followed
was entirely on the basis of electrostatic contributions that 
result in OAM L, rather than the usually known unquenching via
atomic SOC. 
However, I changed to title of this part to:
"OAM due to electric dipoles",
and the next to
"Electric dipoles due to OAM",
in an attempt to contrast the two similar, but different, contributions to the total
effect. 
 
Fig. 2.4: I'm lost.  First, some headings on the figure say
p_x+ip_y and some say p_x+ip_z; was that intentional??  (Also
in caption.)  The figure horiszontal axis label suggests the
lattice constant is 2a_x, not a_x; is that right?  More
importantly, I don't understand what the vertical axis is on
each figure.  Are we looking at a top view of the x-y plane
for the donuts, abut a side view of the x-z plane for the
isosurfaces??  I find it very confusing.

I have updated and corrected the figure. The p_y was a mistake,
it should have been always p_x. I have added a set of axes to
demonstrate that this is indeed the x-z plane. The arrows
originally indicated that the neighboring Wannier functions
were shifted by + and - a_x. I have removed those and simply
added the double-sided arrow indicating the cell-parameter
along the x-direction. 

A detail: I think you are using "nonrelativistic" as a
synonym for "absence of SOC", but this isn't quite right,
since virtually all pseudopotentials include the scalar
relativistic effects.  Unless you _really_ mean fully
nonrelativistic, I think you need to use other wording.

I have changed the wording to spin-orbit-coupled (SOC) calculations,
and non-spin-orbit-coupled (NSOC) calculations, since indeed our
pseudopotentials include the scalar relativistic contributions.
 
There seems to be a redundant sentence, once at the bottom of
p. 23, repeated just below Fig. 2.10.

I removed the second sentence.

Chapter 3
---------

Start of 3.2: I suggest to list the space group (P2_1a ?) of
the PM configuration, then say the _magnetic_ group of the
ground state is P_ab2_1a.

Is this true?


In Fig. 3.1, I found it confusing.  Black arrows in a) have 
a different meaning than those in b) and c).  I wonder if there
is a way to outline in a) the regions that are blown up in
b) and c)?

This chapter seems to be in good shape overall.  (Pretty cool
results, actually.)

Chapter 4
---------

Introduction in 4.1: It seems to be unclear whether the SDW is
present in the ground state, or it is induced by the light pulse.
For example, you say it thermalizes on very short time scales.
I would use that language for phonons or spin waves that are
excitations (absent in the ground state), not for a static
distortion that is present in the ground state.  Are you
talking about thermalization of amplitude modes and/or
phasons of the SDW after some excitation?  In short, is the
SDW a static object, or a dynamic one, or both?  It needs
explaining.

The wording is indeed misleading. The question of thermalization is
more about how valid it is to ascribe different temperatures to 
different parts of the material, which is discussed at a later
stage in the theory <add this to the theory>. 
The SDW is present in the ground state, and the excitations that 
are mentioned are amplitude modes that are excited through heating
with optical pulses.

I have changed the wording so that it reflects the concept of the chapter
more rather than the question of thermalization, i.e. that through
the fast dynamics of the SDW excitations, a high degree of control
can be achieved over the slower PLD dynamics.


The agreement in 4.4 looks pretty impressive.

Chapter 5
---------

There is a terminology used in the field of ferroelectrics and
related systems, in which an "intrinsic" property (say,
piezoelectricity) is the one you would get of DWs don't move,
which the "extrinsic" response is larger since it takes into
account the motion of DWs.  Usually the latter is at the level
of the response of the domain pattern, rather than displacements
of individual walls, but I still think it might be good to make
the connection to this terminology somewhere.

Formatting details
------------------

These are small things, but to make the presentation look
more professional:

You overuse upper-case lettering.  In English it is not
optional when to use upper case; there are rules.  Example:
In the first sentence of Ch. 1, there is no reason for
"condensed" and "matter" to be capitalized.  Names of elements,
like "chromium", are not capitalized; only the symbol names
like Cr are capitalized.

For chapter and section titles, there are two options; you
should pick one and stick to it.  I suggest only capitalizing
the first word (except where required by standard rules); the
other option is to also capitalize all "main words".

I found it strange that some paragraphs have a space above and
some don't; some start at the left margin and some are indented.
You should decide your convention and use it consistently
everywhere.  (Another convention is that all paragraphs except
the first one in a section are indented.)  If you have a reason
for doing otherwise, you can use bullets, or add italicized
subheadings, etc.  It is not conventional to use extra vertical
white space for this purpose.

Hyphenation rules: "spin splitting" used as a noun should not
be hyphenated, but when used as an adjective ("spin-splitting
term") it is hyphenated.  Same for other hyphenations ("Rashba
effect", etc).
